=encoding utf-8


=head1 Changelog


All notable changes to C<lua-resty-nettle> will be documented in this file.


=head2 [1.1] - 2019-11-29


=head3 Fixed


=over


=item *

Random data used with OpenResty leaked a callback which could have
resulted C<too many callbacks> error. The function is now casted as
a proper C function.


=back


=head2 [1.0] - 2019-10-28


=head3 Everything


=over


=item *

Huge refactoring. A lot of new stuff. From this on, I will keep better changelog, ;-).


=back


=head2 [0.105] - 2017-09-29


=head3 Fixed


=over


=item *

Hogweed library loading (copy paste bug, sorry)


=back


=head2 [0.104] - 2017-09-28


=head3 Added


=over


=item *

Option to override library paths with global variables
(see L<#15|https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-nettle/pull/15>,
thanks L<@shashiranjan84|https://github.com/shashiranjan84>)


=back


=head2 [0.103] - 2017-08-12


=head3 Fixed


=over


=item *

More robust library loaders (they sometimes returned non-helpful booleans)
(see L<#14|https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-nettle/issues/14>,
thanks L<@xiangnanscu|https://github.com/xiangnanscu>)


=back


=head2 [0.102] - 2017-06-05


=head3 Fixed


=over


=item *

Prefixed Nettle structs to avoid naming conflicts with other
libraries such as OpenSSL
(see L<#13|https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-nettle/issues/13>,
thanks L<@xiangnanscu|https://github.com/xiangnanscu>)


=back


=head2 [0.101] - 2017-06-05


=head3 Changed


=over


=item *

Tries to load older dependencies in case the latest are not available
(no gurantees that they will work, though)


=back


=head2 [0.100]


=head3 Changed


=over


=item *

Added safeguards on missing ECC curves.

=item *

Automatically calculate, if not provided, RSA a, b, c.
(see L<#11|https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-nettle/issues/11>,
thanks L<@hcaihao|https://github.com/hcaihao>)

=item *

Error messages without ending dot and in lowercase.


=back


=head2 [0.99]


=head3 Added


=over


=item *

A more robust dynamic library loading.
(see L<#10|https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-nettle/issues/10>,
thanks L<@hcaihao|https://github.com/hcaihao>)


=back


=head2 [0.98]


=head3 Changed


=over


=item *

No asserts / errors anymore, all the functions return nil, error message
on errors.


=back


=head3 Added  


=over


=item *

Added support for RSA-PSS signing algorithms.

=item *

Added support for ECC.

=item *

Added support for ECDSA.


=back


=head3 Fixed


=over


=item *

Base64 padding related fixes.


=back


=head2 [0.97] 


=head3 Added


=over


=item *

Added RSA signing algorithms (MD5, SHA1, SHA256 and SHA512).

=item *

Added CBC and CTR modes to Twofish.

=item *

Added curve25519.


=back


=head2 [0.96] - 2016-11-22


=head3 Added


=over


=item *

Support for the official OpenResty package manager (opm).

=item *

Added version.lua file.

=item *

Added version information in lua-resty-nettle.


=back


=head3 Changed


=over


=item *

Moved nettle.lua to nettle/library.lua.

=item *

Implemented nettle.lua that autoloads everything.

=back

