=encoding utf-8


=head1 Name

lua-resty-tftp


=head1 Status

This library is already usable though still highly experimental.

The Lua API is still in flux and may change in the near future without notice.




=head1 Synopsis


    stream {
        server {
            listen 127.0.0.1:69 udp;
    
            content_by_lua_block {
                local tftpd = require "resty.tftp.server"
    
                local ok, err = tftpd.serve(ngx.var.config_prefix.."/tftp")
    
                if not ok then
                    ngx.log(ngx.ERR, err)
                end
            }
        }
    }




=head1 Description

This library provides a simple implementation of a tftp server.




=head1 Installation

Copy the contents of the lib directory to a path in ngx-lua's search path or
define the path in nginx's configuration:


    # nginx.conf
    stream {
        lua_package_path "${prefix}/lib/?.lua;;";
    }

And then load the module provided by this library in Lua. For example,


    local tftpd = require "resty.tftp.server"




=head1 Bugs and Patches

Please report bugs or submit patches by

Creating a ticket on the L<GitHub Issue Tracker|https://github.com/bjne/lua-resty-tftp/issues>,




=head1 Author

Bjørnar Ness E<lt>bjornar.ness@gmail.comE<gt>




=head1 Copyright and License

This module is licensed under the BSD license.

Copyright (C) 2016-2017, by Bjørnar Ness

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:


=over


=item *

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.


=back


=over


=item *

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.


=back

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.




=head1 See Also


=over


=item *

module [resty.dhcp]: https://github.com/bjne/lua-resty-dhcp

=item *

the ngx_stream_lua module: https://github.com/openresty/stream-lua-nginx-module

=item *

OpenResty: https://openresty.org/


=back


