=encoding utf-8


=head1 Name

lua-resty-sniproxy - SNI Proxy based on the ngx_lua cosocket API


=head1 Description

This library is an L<SNI|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication> proxy written in Lua. TLS parsing part is rewritten from L<dlundquistE<sol>sniproxy|https://github.com/dlundquist/sniproxy>

Note that nginx L<stream module|https://nginx.org/en/docs/stream/ngx_stream_core_module.html> and L<ngx_stream_lua_module|https://github.com/openresty/stream-lua-nginx-module> is required.

Tested on Openresty E<gt>= 1.9.15.1.




=head1 Status

Experimental.


=head1 Synopsis


    stream {
        init_by_lua_block {
            local sni = require("resty.sniproxy")
            sni.rules = { 
                {"www.google.com", "www.google.com", 443},
                {"www.facebook.com", "9.8.7.6", 443},
                {"api.twitter.com", "1.2.3.4"},
                {".+.twitter.com", nil, 443},
                {".", "unix:/var/run/nginx-default.sock"}
            }   
        }
    
        # for OpenResty >= 1.13.6.1, native Nginx proxying
        lua_add_variable $sniproxy_upstream;
        server {
                error_log /var/log/nginx/sniproxy-error.log error;
                listen 443;
    
                resolver 8.8.8.8;
    
                prepread_by_lua_block {
                        local sni = require("resty.sniproxy")
                        local sp = sni:new()
                        sp:preread_by()
                }
                proxy_pass $sniproxy_upstream;
        }
    
        # for OpenResty < 1.13.6.1, Lua land proxying
        server {
                error_log /var/log/nginx/sniproxy-error.log error;
                listen 443;
    
                resolver 8.8.8.8;
    
                content_by_lua_block {
                        local sni = require("resty.sniproxy")
                        local sp = sni:new()
                        sp:content_by()
                }
        }
    }

A Lua array table C<sni_rules> should be defined in the C<init_worker_by_lua_block> directive.

The first value can be either whole host name or regular expression. Use C<.> for a default host name. If no entry is matched, connection will be closed.

The second and third values are target host name and port. A host can be DNS name, IP address or UNIX domain socket path. If host is not defined or set to C<nil>, B<server_name> in SNI will be used. If the port is not defined or set to C<nil> , B<443> will be used.

Rules are applied with the priority as its occurrence sequence in the table. In the example above, B<api.twitter.com> will match the third rule B<api.twitter.com> rather than the fourth B<.+.twitter.com>.

If the protocol version is less than TLSv1 (eg. SSLv3, SSLv2), connection will be closed, since SNI extension is not supported in these versions.




=head1 TODO


=over


=item *

stress and performance test


=back




=head1 Copyright and License

This module is licensed under the BSD license.

Copyright (C) 2016, by fffonion E<lt>fffonion@gmail.comE<gt>.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:


=over


=item *

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.


=back


=over


=item *

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.


=back

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.




=head1 See Also


=over


=item *

the ngx_stream_lua_module: https://github.com/openresty/stream-lua-nginx-module

=item *

[dlundquist/sniproxy] (https://github.com/dlundquist/sniproxy)

=item *

[ngx_stream_ssl_preread_module] (https://nginx.org/en/docs/stream/ngx_stream_ssl_preread_module.html) is available since Nginx 1.11.5 as an alternative to this module.


=back


